Add rca 20210309 (#198)
JupiterOne/docs: rcas/20210309-cognito-outage.md

of their requests fail because the API gateway authorizer makes requests to
fetch Cognito's well known JSON Web Key Sets (JWKS) via the
`/.well-known/jwks.json` route. This route is used to fetch public keys that are
used to verify that the API key, which is encoded as a JSON Web Token (JWT), was
signed by either `account-service` or Cognito.

During the outage a J1 developer noted that they were able to still access J1 APIs via the CLI
tool. The reason why this occurred was because the lambda authorizer caches the
public keys associated with the issuer. The developer that used the CLI tool
must have exercised a warmed lambda instance that had the values
cached. It is also possible that API Gateway had decided to accept the request
and avoid invoking the authorizer due to it's built in authorization caching.
However, the latter is a less likely scenario considering the default TTL is 5
minutes and the developer that noted that successful usage of the CLI had posted
the message at 5:17 EST, almost 20 minutes into the outage.

The underlying root cause for the authentication issues was the AWS Cognito outage.

> JuipterOne could not provide a workaround withing the timespan of this outage,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JupiterOne could not provide a workaround within the timespan of this outage,
```

but JupiterOne has active plans to avoid Cognito JKWS calls for API usage
in the future.

## Resolution

## Lessons Learned

-   What went well?

>     -   AWS acknowledged the issue fairly quickly and got Cognito back into a
>         working state within an hour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -   AWS acknowledged the Cognito service disruption in a timely manner and restored all
        service capabilities within an hour.
```

>     -   Our internal monitor identified the issue proactively at 4:59 PM EST, almost the
>         the same time JupiterOne employees and customers noticed the issue.

Reviewer 2: The document refers to our team as `JupiterOne` elsewhere.
```suggestion
    -   Internal JupiterOne monitoring services provided early identification of the issue,
        just ahead of reports from employees and customers.
```

-   What went badly?

>     -   There was not significant action that could be taken to rectify the issue faster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -   No significant action could be taken by JupiterOne to reduce time to recovery.
```

    -   Customers were actively trying to use the product while the outage
        occurred.

>     -   Customers reported that their automation broken because they were unable
>         to access J1 APIs via API keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -   Customers reported their automations broken because they were unable
        to access J1 APIs via API keys.
```

*   Where did we get lucky?

    -   AWS acted quickly and the outage did not last too long.

## Next steps

-   Identify if the Cognito SLAs were broken

-   Move away from the legacy API keys associated with individual users and adopt the newer tokens

>     issued by JuipterOne's `token-service`. This flow avoids the additional calls to Cognito JKWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    issued by JupiterOne's `token-service`. This flow avoids the additional calls to Cognito JKWS.
```
